15
1.  Most parents in Canada favour sex education in the schools.|Research we did in New Brunswick found that more than 94% of Canadian parents believe that sex education should be taught in the schools.  Almost all teenagers and teachers agree, too.|T
2.  The most likely time for a woman to become pregnant is during her menstrual period.|An egg is released from the woman's ovaries midway between her menstrual periods.  This is called ovulation, and is when a women is most likely to get pregnant.  However, pregnancy can occur at any time in the menstrual cycle if a couple has penile-vaginal intercourse and does not use birth control.|F
3.  In this culture, same-sex behaviour is often a normal part of growing up.|More than 1/3 of girls and 1/2 of boys engage in some kind of sexual play with a friend of the same sex while growing up.  Engaging in sexual play with a same-sex friend is not related to whether a person is gay, straight or bisexual in adulthood.|T
4.  The size of a man's penis is related to body build: Men with large bones and muscles and a great deal of body hair tend to have larger penises.|Body size and penis size are not related to each other.  You can't tell the size of a man's penis from any of his other characteristics.|F
5.  A person can develop serious physical and emotional problems as a result of masturbating too frequently.|Masturbation does not cause warts, blindness, mental illness, or hairy palms.  However, some people may feel guilty about masturbating because of what they have been taught.|F
6.  A majority of teenagers masturbate.|By age 13, 2/3 of boys and 1/3 of girls have masturbated at least once.  Research we have done at UNB has shown that by the time they are in first year university, 93% of the male students and 53% of the female students masturbate.|T
7.  There are significant differences in the sexual attitudes of Canadians compared to Americans.|In general, Canadians are more liberal in their sexual attitudes than Americans are.  For example, we are more accepting of premarital sex, abortion, homosexuality, and same-sex marriage. Canadians also have lower rates of adolescent pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections and higher rates of breast feeding than Americans.|T
8.  Most sexual dysfunctions or sexual problems (like low sexual desire or problems getting aroused or reaching orgasm) are a result of biological causes.|Some sexual problems do have biological or medical causes.  However, many sexual problems have no physical or biological cause.  Rather, they are a result of past experiences that result in anxiety or negative attitudes or the current situation such as poor sexual communication or relationship problems.  Sex therapy to improve sexual functioning is usually very effective.|F
9.  There are two types of female orgasms: orgasms from stimulation of the vagina such as sexual intercourse and orgasms from stimulation of the clitoris.|Physiologically there is only one type of female orgasm, and many women cannot reach orgasm without direct fondling of their clitoris.  All female orgasms, even those reached during intercourse, result from direct or indirect stimulation of the clitoris.|F
10.  Most sexual abuse of children is done by adults who are friends or relatives of the victim.|A common misconception is that children only need to beware of strangers.  Most sexual abuse is committed by heterosexual men who are known to the victim.|T
11.  A female can become pregnant during sexual intercourse without the male having an orgasm.|A small amount of fluid, called the pre-ejaculate, comes out of a man's penis prior to ejaculation and orgasm.  There is enough sperm in the pre-ejaculate to result in pregnancy. This is why withdrawal is not effective at preventing pregnancy.|T
12.  Most studies find that gay, lesbian and bisexual individuals are usually people who have had unsatisfactory sexual experiences or sexual trauma in childhood or adolescence.|There are many myths about the causes of sexual orientation-gay or straight. One myth is that people become gay or lesbian because they experience child sexual abuse or an unsatisfactory early sexual experience.  Research does not support this view. What we do know is that sexual orientation seems to be determined long before adolescence and there is likely a biological component to it.|F
13.  Following orgasm, most men lose their erection and, for a short period of time, are not able to get another erection even with more sexual stimulation.|This period of time is called the refractory period.  It may be so short in teenage guys that they are not aware of it, but it usually gets longer as men get older.  Most women do not have a refractory period.|T
14.  Alcohol increases sexual arousal.|Alcohol is a depressant and thus, especially in large doses, decreases sexual arousal and may negatively affect the sexual response.  However, alcohol in small amounts makes people feel more social and sexually uninhibited and thus may make it easier for some people to become aroused.|F
15.  Certain foods have been found to be aphrodisiacs (sexual stimulants).|Certain foods like oysters, peanut butter, Spanish Fly, marijuana have the reputation of being sexual stimulants.  Sorry, but if you try this strategy on the guy/girl of your dreams, it won't work.  There's no truth to this myth.|F
